- [Instructor] In this chapter we will see
how to create a Spring Boot microservice
with Spring Initializr.
To build a Java application,
the first step is to create a Java project.
Most Java projects rely on
a third party archive dependencies
and these third party archives usually have
dependencies of their own.
On top of that, each version of the dependencies
rely on other versions.
Managing all these dependencies is a nightmare
that Java developers have nicknamed JAR hell.
To avoid JAR hell we use dependency management systems
like Maven or Gradle,
but even with Maven and Gradle versioning between
individual .jar files can be a nuisance.
Spring Boot recognizes this and created the notion
of a Spring Boot starter,
which bundles several dependencies into a grouping
that is easier to manage.
There is a lot, and I mean a lot,
of Spring Boot starter dependencies,
so even cobbling together a project on your own
can be difficult.
This is where Spring Initializr comes to the rescue.
Spring Initializr is a tool for creating
Spring Boot Java projects by answering
a series of questions and selecting checkboxes
to choose which features to include.
Initializr creates a package structure,
the pom.xml for Maven or build.gradle for Gradle files,
and any required Java source classes.
For our first Spring Boot RESTful microservice,
we will employ four Spring Boot starters.
Web, which includes Tomcat and Spring MVC,
rest repositories to expose Spring Data repositories
over REST, Java Persistence API,
and the H2 in memory database driver.
To simplify configuration of our first
Spring Boot application,
we will use an in memory database H2.
After answering all the questions
and selecting the desired dependencies,
Spring Initializr generates the project.